sperm|A mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid.
T cell|A type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a T cell receptor complex.
interneuron|Most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory. Interneurons may also refer to neurons whose axons remain within a particular brain region as contrasted with projection neurons which have axons projecting to other brain regions.
endothelial cell|An endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal. In mammals, endothelial cell has vimentin filaments and is derived from the mesoderm.
Purkinje cell|The output neuron of the cerebellar cortex.
astrocyte|A class of large neuroglial (macroglial) cells in the central nervous system - the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord. Astrocytes (from 'star' cells) are irregularly shaped with many long processes, including those with 'end feet' which form the glial (limiting) membrane and directly and indirectly contribute to the blood-brain barrier. They regulate the extracellular ionic and chemical environment, and 'reactive astrocytes' (along with microglia) respond to injury.
oligodendrocyte|A class of large neuroglial (macroglial) cells in the central nervous system. Form the insulating myelin sheath of axons in the central nervous system.
microglial cell|A central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system. Marker include CD11b-positive, F4/80-positive, and CD68-positive.
hepatocyte|The main structural component of the liver. They are specialized epithelial cells that are organized into interconnected plates called lobules. Majority of cell population of liver, polygonal in shape, arranged in plates or trabeculae between sinusoids; may have single nucleus or binucleated.
macrophage|A mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues, typically differentiated from monocytes, capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material, including immune complexes, microorganisms, and dead cells.
B cell|A lymphocyte of B lineage with the phenotype CD19-positive, CD20-positive, and capable of B cell mediated immunity.
dendritic cell|A cell of hematopoietic origin, typically resident in particular tissues, specialized in the uptake, processing, and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via T cell activation. These cells are lineage negative (CD3-negative, CD19-negative, CD34-negative, and CD56-negative).
monocyte|Myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages, osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells.
alveolar macrophage|A tissue-resident macrophage found in the alveoli of the lungs. Ingests small inhaled particles resulting in degradation and presentation of the antigen to immunocompetent cells. Markers include F4/80-positive, CD11b-/low, CD11c-positive, CD68-positive, sialoadhesin-positive, dectin-1-positive, MR-positive, CX3CR1-negative.
enterocyte|An epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen.
natural killer cell|A lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells.
glomerular visceral epithelial cell|A glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized kidney epithelial cell that contains \
cardiac muscle cell|Cardiac muscle cells are striated muscle cells that are responsible for heart contraction. In mammals, the contractile fiber resembles those of skeletal muscle but are only one third as large in diameter, are richer in sarcoplasm, and contain centrally located instead of peripheral nuclei.
erythroblast|A nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers.
regulatory T cell|A T cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other T cell subsets through direct cell-cell contact and cytokine release.
immature B cell|An immature B cell is a B cell that has the phenotype surface IgM-positive and surface IgD-negative, and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation.
plasmablast|An activated mature (naive or memory) B cell that is secreting immunoglobulin, typified by being CD27-positive, CD38-positive, CD138-negative.
cerebellar granule cell|Granule cell that is part of the cerebellum.
hematopoietic lineage restricted progenitor cell|A hematopoietic progenitor cell that is capable of developing into only one lineage of hematopoietic cells.
type I pneumocyte|A type I pneumocyte is a flattened, branched pneumocyte that covers more than 98% of the alveolar surface. This large cell has thin (50-100 nm) cytoplasmic extensions to form the air-blood barrier essential for normal gas exchange.
type II pneumocyte|A type II pneumocyte is a pneumocyte that modulates the fluid surrounding the alveolar epithelium by secreting and recycling surfactants. This cell type also contributes to tissue repair and can differentiate after injury into a type I pneumocyte. Thicker than squamous alveolar cells, have a rounded apical surface that projects above the level of surrounding epithelium. The free surface is covered by short microvilli.
glomerular endothelial cell|An endothelial cell found in the glomerulus of the kidney. This cell is flattened, highly fenestrated, and plays a vital role in the formation of glomerular ultrafiltrate.
epithelial cell of distal tubule|An epithelial cell of the distal convoluted tubule of the kidney that helps regulate systemic levels of potassium, sodium, calcium, and pH.
epithelial cell of proximal tubule|An epithelial cell of the proximal tubule of the kidney.
excitatory motor neuron|A motor neuron that is capable of directly inducing muscle contraction.
inhibitory neuron|
kidney collecting duct epithelial cell|An epithelial cell that is part of the collecting duct of renal tubule.
nephron tubule epithelial cell|An epithelial cell that is part of a nephron tubule.
