fibroblast|A connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules. Flattened and irregular in outline with branching processes; appear fusiform or spindle-shaped.
epithelial cell|A cell that is usually found in a two-dimensional sheet with a free surface. The cell has a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and for cell polarity where apical part is directed towards the lumen and the basal part to the basal lamina.
blood vessel endothelial cell|An endothelial cell that lines the vasculature.
blood cell|A cell found predominately in the blood.
T cell|A type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a T cell receptor complex.
granulocyte|A leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm.
mast cell|A cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation. Progenitors leave bone marrow and mature in connective and mucosal tissue. Mature mast cells are found in all tissues, except the bloodstream. Their phenotype is CD117-high, CD123-negative, CD193-positive, CD200R3-positive, and FceRI-high. Stem-cell factor (KIT-ligand; SCF) is the main controlling signal of their survival and development.
endothelial cell|An endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal. In mammals, endothelial cell has vimentin filaments and is derived from the mesoderm.
mesenchymal stem cell|A connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three-dimensional masses. This cell type is CD73-positive, CD90-positive, CD105-positive, CD45-negative, CD34-negative, and MHCII-negative. They may further differentiate into osteoblasts, adipocytes, myocytes, neurons, or chondroblasts in vitro. Originally described as residing in the bone marrow, this cell type is now known to reside in many, if not all, adult organs.
neuroendocrine cell|An endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals.
hepatocyte|The main structural component of the liver. They are specialized epithelial cells that are organized into interconnected plates called lobules. Majority of cell population of liver, polygonal in shape, arranged in plates or trabeculae between sinusoids; may have single nucleus or binucleated.
macrophage|A mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues, typically differentiated from monocytes, capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material, including immune complexes, microorganisms, and dead cells.
B cell|A lymphocyte of B lineage with the phenotype CD19-positive, CD20-positive, and capable of B cell mediated immunity.
keratinocyte|An epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified (horny) layer of the skin. Successive stages of differentiation of the keratinocytes forming the epidermal layers are basal cell, spinous or prickle cell, and the granular cell.
dendritic cell|A cell of hematopoietic origin, typically resident in particular tissues, specialized in the uptake, processing, and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via T cell activation. These cells are lineage negative (CD3-negative, CD19-negative, CD34-negative, and CD56-negative).
Langerhans cell|Langerhans cell is a conventional dendritic cell that has plasma membrane part CD207. A Langerhans cell is a stellate dendritic cell of myeloid origin, that appears clear on light microscopy and has a dark-staining, indented nucleus and characteristic inclusions (Birbeck granules) in the cytoplasm; Langerhans cells are found principally in the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, but they also occur in other stratified epithelia and have been identified in the lung, lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus.
stromal cell|A connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue. These are most often associated with the uterine mucosa and the ovary as well as the hematopoietic system and elsewhere.
proerythroblast|An immature, nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells. This cell is CD71-positive, has both a nucleus and a nucleolus, and lacks hematopoeitic lineage markers.
promonocyte|A precursor in the monocytic series, being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte. This cell is CD11b-positive and has fine azurophil granules.
monocyte|Myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages, osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells.
alveolar macrophage|A tissue-resident macrophage found in the alveoli of the lungs. Ingests small inhaled particles resulting in degradation and presentation of the antigen to immunocompetent cells. Markers include F4/80-positive, CD11b-/low, CD11c-positive, CD68-positive, sialoadhesin-positive, dectin-1-positive, MR-positive, CX3CR1-negative.
skeletal muscle satellite cell|An elongated, spindle-shaped, cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber. These cells are mostly quiescent, but upon activation they divide to produce cells that generate new muscle fibers.
natural killer cell|A lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells.
basal cell|Undifferentiated; mitotic stem cell for other epithelial cell types; rounded or elliptical with little cytoplasm and few organelles; contain cytokeratin intermediate filament.
mesangial cell|A cell type that encapsulates the capillaries and venules in the kidney. This cell secretes mesangial matrix that provides the structural support for the capillaries.
leukocyte|An achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement, found in blood or other tissue.
cardiac muscle cell|Cardiac muscle cells are striated muscle cells that are responsible for heart contraction. In mammals, the contractile fiber resembles those of skeletal muscle but are only one third as large in diameter, are richer in sarcoplasm, and contain centrally located instead of peripheral nuclei.
myeloid cell|A cell of the monocyte, granulocyte, mast cell, megakaryocyte, or erythroid lineage.
erythroblast|A nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers.
basophil|Any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped, pale-staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes, and with cytoplasm that contains coarse, bluish-black granules of variable size. Basophils contain vasoactive amines such as histamine and serotonin, which are released on appropriate stimulation. A basophil is CD123-positive, CD193-positive, CD203c-positive, and FceRIa-positive.
immature B cell|An immature B cell is a B cell that has the phenotype surface IgM-positive and surface IgD-negative, and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation.
classical monocyte|A monocyte that responds rapidly to microbial stimuli by secreting cytokines and antimicrobial factors and which is characterized by high expression of CCR2 in both rodents and humans, negative for the lineage markers CD3, CD19, and CD20, and of larger size than non-classical monocytes.
non-classical monocyte|A type of monocyte characterized by low expression of CCR2, low responsiveness to monocyte chemoattractant CCL2/MCP1, low phagocytic activity, and decrease size relative to classical monocytes, but increased co-stimulatory activity. May also play a role in tissue repair.
DN1 thymic pro-T cell|A pro-T cell that has the phenotype CD4-negative, CD8-negative, CD44-positive, and CD25-negative.
Fraction A pre-pro B cell|A pro-B cell that CD45R/B220-positive, CD43-positive, HSA-low, BP-1-negative and Ly6c-negative. This cell type is also described as being lin-negative, AA4-positive, Kit-positive, IL7Ra-positive and CD45R-positive.
early pro-B cell|A pro-B cell that is CD22-positive, CD34-positive, CD38-positive and TdT-positive (has TdT activity). Pre-BCR is expressed on the cell surface. Cell is CD19-negative, CD20-negative, complement receptor type 2-negative and CD10-low. D-to-J recombination of the heavy chain occurs at this stage.
late pro-B cell|A pre-B cell precursor is CD19-low, CD22-positive , CD34-positive, CD38-positive.
type II pneumocyte|A type II pneumocyte is a pneumocyte that modulates the fluid surrounding the alveolar epithelium by secreting and recycling surfactants. This cell type also contributes to tissue repair and can differentiate after injury into a type I pneumocyte. Thicker than squamous alveolar cells, have a rounded apical surface that projects above the level of surrounding epithelium. The free surface is covered by short microvilli.
ciliated columnar cell of tracheobronchial tree|A ciliated columnar cell found in the trachea and bronchus. Vary from low to tall columnar; possesses up to 300 cilia at its surface, interspersed with long irregular microvilli with the cilia varying in length from about 6um in the trachea to about 4um in the terminal bronchioles; driving force of the ciliary current in the bronchial tree.
basal cell of epidermis|A basally situated, mitotically active, columnar-shaped keratinocyte attached to the basement membrane.
granulocytopoietic cell|A cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte.
epithelial cell of distal tubule|An epithelial cell of the distal convoluted tubule of the kidney that helps regulate systemic levels of potassium, sodium, calcium, and pH.
epithelial cell of proximal tubule|An epithelial cell of the proximal tubule of the kidney.
luminal epithelial cell of mammary gland|A mammary epithelial cell that occurs in the lumen of the ductal and alveoli structure in the breast.
endocardial cell|An endothelial cell that lines the intracavitary lumen of the heart, separating the circulating blood from the underlying myocardium. This cell type releases a number of vasoactive substances including prostacyclin, nitrous oxide and endothelin.
immature T cell|A T cell that has not completed T cell selection.
kidney epithelial cell|An epithelial cell of the kidney.
hematopoietic precursor cell|Any hematopoietic cell that is a precursor of some other hematopoietic cell type.
mesenchymal cell|A non-polarised cell precursor cell that is part of some mesenchyme, is associated with the cell matrix but is not connected to other cells and is capable of migration.
endothelial cell of hepatic sinusoid|An endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid.
kidney collecting duct epithelial cell|An epithelial cell that is part of the collecting duct of renal tubule.
