megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor cell|A progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages.
common lymphoid progenitor|A oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage.
fibroblast|A connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules. Flattened and irregular in outline with branching processes; appear fusiform or spindle-shaped.
epithelial cell|A cell that is usually found in a two-dimensional sheet with a free surface. The cell has a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and for cell polarity where apical part is directed towards the lumen and the basal part to the basal lamina.
blood cell|A cell found predominately in the blood.
T cell|A type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a T cell receptor complex.
Kupffer cell|A tissue-resident macrophage of the reticuloendothelial system found on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids involved in erythrocyte clearance. Markers include F4/80+, CD11b-low, CD68-positive, sialoadhesin-positive, CD163/SRCR-positive. Irregular, with long processes including lamellipodia extending into the sinusoid lumen, have flattened nucleus with cytoplasm containing characteristic invaginations of the plasma membrane (vermiform bodies); lie within the sinusoid lumen attached to the endothelial surface; derived from the bone marrow, form a major part of the body's mononuclear phagocyte system.
granulocyte|A leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm.
endothelial cell|An endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal. In mammals, endothelial cell has vimentin filaments and is derived from the mesoderm.
astrocyte|A class of large neuroglial (macroglial) cells in the central nervous system - the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord. Astrocytes (from 'star' cells) are irregularly shaped with many long processes, including those with 'end feet' which form the glial (limiting) membrane and directly and indirectly contribute to the blood-brain barrier. They regulate the extracellular ionic and chemical environment, and 'reactive astrocytes' (along with microglia) respond to injury.
oligodendrocyte|A class of large neuroglial (macroglial) cells in the central nervous system. Form the insulating myelin sheath of axons in the central nervous system.
microglial cell|A central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system. Marker include CD11b-positive, F4/80-positive, and CD68-positive.
mesenchymal stem cell|A connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three-dimensional masses. This cell type is CD73-positive, CD90-positive, CD105-positive, CD45-negative, CD34-negative, and MHCII-negative. They may further differentiate into osteoblasts, adipocytes, myocytes, neurons, or chondroblasts in vitro. Originally described as residing in the bone marrow, this cell type is now known to reside in many, if not all, adult organs.
professional antigen presenting cell|A cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to T cells in order to initiate an immune response.
goblet cell|A cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins.
enteroendocrine cell|An endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract or in the pancreas.
type B pancreatic cell|A cell that secretes insulin and is located towards the center of the islets of Langerhans.
pancreatic A cell|A type of enteocrine cell found in the periphery of the islets of Langerhans that secretes glucagon.
pancreatic D cell|A D cell located in the pancreas. Peripherally placed within the islets like type A cells; contains somatostatin.
hepatocyte|The main structural component of the liver. They are specialized epithelial cells that are organized into interconnected plates called lobules. Majority of cell population of liver, polygonal in shape, arranged in plates or trabeculae between sinusoids; may have single nucleus or binucleated.
myofibroblast cell|An animal cell that has characteristics of both a fibroblast cell and a smooth muscle cell.
smooth muscle cell|A non-striated, elongated, spindle-shaped cell found lining the digestive tract, uterus, and blood vessels. They develop from specialized myoblasts (smooth muscle myoblast).
erythrocyte|A red blood cell. In mammals, mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen.
macrophage|A mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues, typically differentiated from monocytes, capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material, including immune complexes, microorganisms, and dead cells.
B cell|A lymphocyte of B lineage with the phenotype CD19-positive, CD20-positive, and capable of B cell mediated immunity.
keratinocyte|An epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified (horny) layer of the skin. Successive stages of differentiation of the keratinocytes forming the epidermal layers are basal cell, spinous or prickle cell, and the granular cell.
epidermal cell|An epithelial cell of the integument (the outer layer of an organism).
stromal cell|A connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue. These are most often associated with the uterine mucosa and the ovary as well as the hematopoietic system and elsewhere.
neuron|The basic cellular unit of nervous tissue. Each neuron consists of a body, an axon, and dendrites. Their purpose is to receive, conduct, and transmit impulses in the nervous system.
lymphocyte|A lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus, a neutral staining cytoplasm, and prominent heterochromatin.
granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell|A hematopoietic progenitor cell that is committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages. These cells are CD123-positive, and do not express Gata1 or Gata2 but do express C/EBPa, and Pu.1.
monocyte|Myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages, osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells.
enterocyte|An epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen.
skeletal muscle satellite cell|An elongated, spindle-shaped, cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber. These cells are mostly quiescent, but upon activation they divide to produce cells that generate new muscle fibers.
natural killer cell|A lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells.
Bergmann glial cell|Type of radial astrocyte in the cerebellar cortex that have their cell bodies in the Purkinje cell layer and processes that extend into the molecular layer, terminating with bulbous endfeet at the pial surface. Bergmann glia express high densities of glutamate transporters that limit diffusion of the neurotransmitter glutamate during its release from synaptic terminals. Besides their role in early development of the cerebellum, Bergmann glia are also required for the pruning or addition of synapses.
basal cell|Undifferentiated; mitotic stem cell for other epithelial cell types; rounded or elliptical with little cytoplasm and few organelles; contain cytokeratin intermediate filament.
leukocyte|An achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement, found in blood or other tissue.
cardiac muscle cell|Cardiac muscle cells are striated muscle cells that are responsible for heart contraction. In mammals, the contractile fiber resembles those of skeletal muscle but are only one third as large in diameter, are richer in sarcoplasm, and contain centrally located instead of peripheral nuclei.
myeloid cell|A cell of the monocyte, granulocyte, mast cell, megakaryocyte, or erythroid lineage.
basophil|Any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped, pale-staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes, and with cytoplasm that contains coarse, bluish-black granules of variable size. Basophils contain vasoactive amines such as histamine and serotonin, which are released on appropriate stimulation. A basophil is CD123-positive, CD193-positive, CD203c-positive, and FceRIa-positive.
naive B cell|A naive B cell is a mature B cell that has the phenotype surface IgD-positive, surface IgM-positive, CD20-positive, CD27-negative and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery.
regulatory T cell|A T cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other T cell subsets through direct cell-cell contact and cytokine release.
immature B cell|An immature B cell is a B cell that has the phenotype surface IgM-positive and surface IgD-negative, and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation.
precursor B cell|A precursor B cell is a B cell with the phenotype CD10-positive.
immature natural killer cell|A natural killer cell that is developmentally immature and expresses natural killer cell receptors (NKR).
mature natural killer cell|A natural killer cell that is developmentally mature and expresses a variety of inhibitory and activating receptors that recognize MHC class I and other stress related molecules.
classical monocyte|A monocyte that responds rapidly to microbial stimuli by secreting cytokines and antimicrobial factors and which is characterized by high expression of CCR2 in both rodents and humans, negative for the lineage markers CD3, CD19, and CD20, and of larger size than non-classical monocytes.
DN1 thymic pro-T cell|A pro-T cell that has the phenotype CD4-negative, CD8-negative, CD44-positive, and CD25-negative.
immature NK T cell|An immature alpha-beta T-cell that express Egr2. These cells give rise to T cells expressing NK markers.
pre-natural killer cell|Cell committed to natural killer cell lineage that has the phenotype CD122-positive, CD34-positive, and CD117-positive. This cell type lacks expression of natural killer receptor proteins.
Slamf1-negative multipotent progenitor cell|A hematopoietic progenitor that has restricted self-renewal capability. Cell is Kit-positive, Ly6-positive, CD150-negative and Flt3-negative.
Slamf1-positive multipotent progenitor cell|A hematopoietic progenitor that has some limited self-renewal capability. Cells are lin-negative, Kit-positive, CD34-positive, and Slamf1-positive.
late pro-B cell|A pre-B cell precursor is CD19-low, CD22-positive , CD34-positive, CD38-positive.
pancreatic acinar cell|A secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins. This cell is a typical zymogenic cell, have a basal nucleus and basophilic cytoplasm consisting of regular arrays of granular endoplasmic reticulum with mitochondria and dense secretory granules.
pancreatic ductal cell|Epithelial cell found in the ducts of the pancreas. This cell type contributes to the high luminal pH.
ciliated columnar cell of tracheobronchial tree|A ciliated columnar cell found in the trachea and bronchus. Vary from low to tall columnar; possesses up to 300 cilia at its surface, interspersed with long irregular microvilli with the cilia varying in length from about 6um in the trachea to about 4um in the terminal bronchioles; driving force of the ciliary current in the bronchial tree.
basal cell of epidermis|A basally situated, mitotically active, columnar-shaped keratinocyte attached to the basement membrane.
granulocytopoietic cell|A cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte.
Brush cell of epithelium proper of large intestine|Brush cell found in the epithelial layer of the colon.
pancreatic PP cell|A PP cell located in the islets of the pancreas.
luminal epithelial cell of mammary gland|A mammary epithelial cell that occurs in the lumen of the ductal and alveoli structure in the breast.
keratinocyte stem cell|A stem cell located in the bulge of the hair follicle that can give rise to regenerate the new follicle with each hair cycle and to reepithelialize the epidermis during wound repair.
endocardial cell|An endothelial cell that lines the intracavitary lumen of the heart, separating the circulating blood from the underlying myocardium. This cell type releases a number of vasoactive substances including prostacyclin, nitrous oxide and endothelin.
pancreatic stellate cell|A cell that is found in the periacinar space of the exocrine pancreas and in perivascular and periductal regions of the pancreas, and has long cytoplasmic processes that encircle the base of the acinus. Expresses several intermediate filament proteins including vimentin and nestin. Shares many of the characteristics of hepatatic stellate cells, but not stellate cells of the central nervous system. Upon activation, this cell type undergoes morphological and gene expression changes that make the cell suggestive of being a type of myofibroblast.
immature T cell|A T cell that has not completed T cell selection.
oligodendrocyte precursor cell|The cell type from which oligodendrocytes develop. This cell originates from multiple structures within the developing brain including the medial ganglion eminence and the lateral ganglionic eminence. These cells migrate throughout the central nervous system and persist into adulthood where they play an important role in remyelination of injured neurons.
mesenchymal stem cell of adipose|A mesenchymal stem cell of adipose tissue.
hematopoietic precursor cell|Any hematopoietic cell that is a precursor of some other hematopoietic cell type.
skeletal muscle satellite stem cell|A skeletal muscle satellite cell that divides by stem cell division.  A proportion of this population undergoes symmetric stem cell division, producing two skeletal muscle satellite stem cells. The rest undergo asymmetric stem cell division - retaining their identity while budding off a daughter cell that differentiates into an adult skeletal muscle myoblast.
mesenchymal cell|A non-polarised cell precursor cell that is part of some mesenchyme, is associated with the cell matrix but is not connected to other cells and is capable of migration.
stem cell of epidermis|A somatic stem cell that is part of the epidermis.
